ADDITIONAL DISCLAIMER FOR UNIX

COB2SAS is designed to work on MVS, CMS, VMS, and VSE. Since COB2SAS
is just a big data step, it will physically execute on any platform
that SAS runs on with minor modifications to the COB2SAS code. The
problem is that it is likely that either COB2SAS will not be able to
parse the copybook or that the INPUT statement COB2SAS generates will
not work on other platforms because of differences in the way that
packed fields are stored.

In order for COB2SAS to work on another platform, a few things must be
true.  First the COBOL syntax of the copybook your trying to convert
has to conform to ANSI specification X3.23-1985. Second, the various
pictures clauses and usages must translate to the SAS informats in the
way that is described in SAS Note V6-SYS.SYS-2503.  This usage note is
included as filename U2503.TXT.

The only exception to the above 2 rules are when you're downloading
both the copybook and the data from MVS, CMS, or VSE.  In that case
you need to download the data portion in BINARY.  You can then
uncomment the %INCLUDE(R2S370) statement in the R2UNX program.  This
will translate the formats into S370Fxxx formats allowing you to read
the file on your PC as a binary file.



INSTALLING COB2SAS ON UNIX

1) If you downloaded the COB2SAS8.ZIP file directly from UNIX, then
   you have to take steps to handle the carriage return characters.
   The COB2SAS8.ZIP file was created on a PC, so there are both
   carriage returns and line feed characters in the files to signify
   the end-of-record.  UNIX only needs the line feed characters.  So,
   if you download the file directly to UNIX, you will see carriage
   return characters at the end of every line.  The carriage return
   character is '0d'x.  If you try to run the COB2SAS programs with
   the carriage return characters in there, you will receive errors.

   So, the first step in the installation process is to strip out the
   carriage return characters from the downloaded COB2SAS programs.
   If you don't already have a utility to strip out the carriage
   return characters, you can use either of the following methods:

   A) Download the zipped file to a PC, unzip them on your PC, then
      FTP the individual files to your UNIX box.  FTP will remove the
      carriage return characters for you.

   B) Download the zipped file to your Unix box, unzip the files, then
      run the included data step against the directory that contains
      the unzipped files.  The data step, in another directory, will
      create a new set of files that do not contain the carriage
      return characters.  You can use this new directory for the
      installation.

=-=- START OF PROGRAM =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

    * POINT THE INDIR MACRO VARIABLE TO THE DIRECTORY THAT CONTAINS  ;
    * THE UNZIPPED COB2SAS PROGRAMS                                  ;
    %let indir=/u/your/indir;

    * POINT THE OUTDIR MACRO VARIABLE TO THE DIRECTORY TO WHICH THE  ;
    * NEW COB2SAS PROGRAMS WILL BE WRITTEN                           ;
    %let outdir=/u/your/outdir;

    data _null_;
      length filename $12 fvi $50;
      input filename $ @@;
      fvi="&indir"||'/'||filename;
      fvo="&outdir"||'/'||filename;
      infile dummy1 filevar=fvi end=eof truncover;
      file   dummy2 filevar=fvo;
      do until(eof=1);
        input @1 line $char80.;
        line=translate(line,' ','0d'x);
        put @1 line $char80.;
      end;
      cards;
    cp1lst.txt  r2cob3.sas   r2old7.sas rdmecms.txt
    README.txt  dsclmr.txt   r2cob4.sas rdmemvs.txt
    U2503.txt   faq.txt      r2cob5.sas r2rfrn.txt
    cmsdms.sas  mvsbatch.jcl r2cob6.sas r2s370.sas
    mvsdms.sas  r2mvs.sas    r2unx.sas  tdmk.txt
    copyrit.txt r2cms.sas    r2nstl.txt r2usgd.htm
    cp1.txt     r2cob1.sas   r2old2.sas r2usgd.txt
    cp1log.txt  r2cob2.sas   r2old6.sas r2win.txt
    rdmeunx.txt rdmewin.txt  unxdms.sas windms.sas
    FAQ.htm     r2rfrn.htm   r2usgd.htm
    ;

=-=- END OF PROGRAM =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

2) The next step is to verify your COB2SAS installation.  Run SAS
   using the DMSUNX.SAS program to invoke COB2SAS.  Make the necessary
   modifications to the FILENAME statements as per the comments.
   Point the INCOBOL fileref to the CP1.TXT file and run the program.

3) When the job completes, make sure you didn't get any ERRORS in the
   SASLOG (or log window).

4) If you didn't receive any errors, then compare the output in the
   OUTSAS.TXT file to the contents of the CP1LOG.TXT file to make sure
   that the results are the same.

5) If the contents of OUTSAS.TXT matches the contents of CP1LOG.TXT,
   then compare the output in your SASLIST (or output window) to the
   contents of the CP1LST.TXT file.

If everything matched up and you got no errors, then you're all set.

If something didn't match, or if you got errors in your SASLOG, then
verify that you did everything correctly.  If so, then change the
options statement to include SOURCE and SOURCE2 options, rerun the
program, and contact the SAS Technical Support department at
919-677-8008 or send E-mail to support@sas.com.

After you've verified your COB2SAS installation, you can use the
DMSUNX program to execute COB2SAS.
