ADDITIONAL DISCLAIMER FOR WINDOWS

COB2SAS is designed to work on MVS, CMS, VMS, and VSE. Since COB2SAS
is just a big data step, it will physically execute on any platform
that SAS runs on with minor modifications to the COB2SAS code. The
problem is that it is likely that either COB2SAS will not be able to
parse the copybook or that the INPUT statement COB2SAS generates will
not work on other platforms because of differences in the way that
packed fields are stored.

In order for COB2SAS to work on another platform, a few things must be
true.  First the COBOL syntax of the copybook you are trying to
convert has to conform to ANSI specification X3.23-1985. Second, the
various pictures, clauses, and usages must translate to the SAS
informats in the way that is described in SAS Note V6-SYS.SYS-2503.
This usage note is included as filename U2503.TXT.

The only exception to the above 2 rules are when you're downloading
both the copybook and the data from MVS, CMS, or VSE.  In that case
you need to download the data portion in BINARY.  You can then
uncomment the %INCLUDE(R2S370) statement in the R2WIN program.  This
will translate the formats into S370Fxxx formats allowing you to read
the file on your PC as a binary file.



INSTALLING COB2SAS ON WINDOWS

By unzipping the COB2SAS8.ZIP file, you've installed COB2SAS.  All you
have to do now is verify that it works.  Follow the following
instructions to do that :

1) To run COB2SAS use the WINDMS.SAS program.  Make the necessary
   modifications to the FILENAME statements as per the comments.
   Point the INCOBOL fileref to the CP1.TXT file and run the program.

2) When the job completes, make sure you didn't get any ERRORS in the
   SASLOG (or log window).

3) If you didn't receive any errors, then compare the output in the
   OUTSAS.TXT file (the file pointed to by the OUTSAS fileref in the
   WINDMS.SAS program) to the contents of the CP1LOG.TXT file to make
   sure that the results are the same.

4) If the contents of OUTSAS.TXT matches the contents of CP1LOG.TXT,
   then compare the output in your SASLIST (or output window) to the
   contents of the CP1LST.TXT file.

If everything matched up and you got no errors, then you're all set.

If something didn't match, or if you got errors in your SASLOG, then
verify that you did everything correctly.  If so, then change the
options statement to include SOURCE and SOURCE2 options, rerun the
program, and contact the SAS Technical Support department at
919-677-8008 or send E-mail to support@sas.com.

After you've verified your COB2SAS installation, you can use the
WINDMS program to execute COB2SAS.
